fix(html): update boolean value description (#30658)
mdn/content: files/en-us/glossary/boolean/html/index.md

title: Boolean attribute (HTML)
slug: Glossary/Boolean/HTML
page-type: glossary-definition
spec-urls: https://html.spec.whatwg.org/#boolean-attributes
---

{{GlossarySidebar}}

> A **boolean attribute** in HTML is an attribute that represents `true` or `false` values. The presence of a boolean attribute on an element represents the true value, and the absence of the attribute represents the false value.

Reviewer: I notice that this new language is copied [directly from the spec](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/#boolean-attributes). Could you please rephrase this language to be in our own words? Perhaps something like:

```suggestion
A **boolean attribute** in HTML is an attribute that represents `true` or `false` values. If an element contains a boolean attribute - no matter the value of that attribute - the attribute has the `true` value. If the element does not contain the attribute, the attribute has the `false` value.
```

Reviewer: it's less about the simplicity of the language on the spec (which, i agree, it's good language), and more about the fact that we don't want to copy/paste others' language exactly. 

i like your latest suggested language; go for it!

If the attribute is present, it can have one of the following values:

- no value at all, e.g. `attribute`
- the empty string, e.g. `attribute=""`
- attribute's name itself, with no leading or trailing whitespace, e.g. `attribute="attribute"`

> > **Note:** The values "true" and "false" are not allowed on boolean attributes. To represent a false value, the attribute has to be omitted altogether.

Reviewer: Same comment as above - please use your own language instead of copying from the spec.

Author: ```suggestion
> **Note:** The strings "true" and "false" are invalid values. To set the attribute to `false`, the attribute should not be mentioned in the element tag.
```

> > **Note:** The strings "true" and "false" are invalid values. To set the attribute to `false`, the attribute should not be mentioned in the element tag.

Author: ```suggestion
> **Note:** The strings "true" and "false" are invalid values. To set the attribute to `false`, the attribute should not be mentioned in the element tag. Though browsers treat any string value as `true`,  you shouldn't rely on them (except the attribute name itself.)
```

Here's an example of a HTML boolean attribute `checked`:

```html
<!-- The following checkboxes will be checked on initial rendering -->
<input type="checkbox" checked />
<input type="checkbox" checked="" />

> <input type="checkbox" checked="checked" />

Reviewer: Why remove the other examples? They helped drive home the point that "any value" is acceptable for booleans. I am guessing you had some reason for the removal :)

Author: Spec clearly says
> its value must either be the empty string or a value that is an ASCII case-insensitive match for the attribute's canonical name, with no leading or trailing whitespace.

So any string literal, except the attribute name itself, is illegal. E.g. "true", "false", "any value", "xyz" etc. are not valid. Browsers support them at the moment but they may not in the future.

Reviewer: got it, thank you! even though you clearly say "the attribute can have one of the following values," do you think it's worth making a note in the content saying something like "browsers support other string literals as `true` values, but you should not use them" ?

Author: > do you think it's worth making a note in the content saying something like "browsers support other string literals as `true` values, but you should not use them" ?

Appending it to the note.
